diff --git a/Science Books/Look First/A Trip Is Not a New Life - Manuscript/01_Part_One_Dirt_Delay_Dates.md b/Science Books/Look First/A Trip Is Not a New Life - Manuscript/01_Part_One_Dirt_Delay_Dates.md
index b9c9a31..a5c6716 100644
--- a/Science Books/Look First/A Trip Is Not a New Life - Manuscript/01_Part_One_Dirt_Delay_Dates.md	
+++ b/Science Books/Look First/A Trip Is Not a New Life - Manuscript/01_Part_One_Dirt_Delay_Dates.md	
@@ -14,5 +14,5 @@ Dirt is what the ground actually is. Not soil. A mineral flour with a tax in it:
 Delay is a number you can time with a wristwatch and a patient friend. Light to the Moon: a second and a third. Light to this world: between about three minutes and about twenty-two, one way, depending on where the two orbits have put the planets this month. The number drifts through the year the way a tide drifts through a day. On the kind side of the cycle she can almost pretend the orbiter is a slow colleague. On the rude side she is writing letters.
 Dates are the only one of the three that a human can move. A slide can print a year. A legislature can fund it or not. A review board can find a crack. The window cannot be moved by any of them. It is a fact about two ellipses, and it repeats about every twenty-six months whether the slide is ready or not.
-where a synodic period is the time for two planets to return to the same lineup ??? for Earth and this world, about 780 days.
+A synodic period is the time for two planets to return to the same lineup ??? for Earth and this world, about 780 days.
 Her day is not an Earth day either. A sol here runs about twenty-four hours and forty minutes. The extra forty minutes sound like a gift. Over a month they are a slow drift that unhooks her body from the clocks on the radio. The orbiter keeps one time. Earth keeps another. The dirt keeps the sol. She keeps the sol, because the dirt is the party that can kill her.
 This book is dirt, delay, and dates. It is not a loaf.
@@ -62,12 +62,5 @@ Basil is a forgiving plant, which is precisely why an early camp grows it rather
 The LEDs themselves are tuned, in real hardware flown to the station over Earth and tested in ground analogs alike, toward the red and blue wavelengths chlorophyll actually uses, skipping the green light a human eye needs to see color but a plant mostly reflects rather than absorbs ??? which is why a genuine growth chamber often looks, to a visitor, like an unsettling magenta box rather than the warm gold a poster prefers to draw. The unglamorous true color of the light a plant wants is, itself, a small honest fact this book is glad to keep. A poster draws the color that sells a feeling. A grow light is tuned to the color that grows a leaf.
 A word on why the kitchen never gets a name.
-The invented world Mara stands on is described in enough consistent, weighable detail ??? a butterscotch sky, one-sixth-adjacent chemistry, a dead crust with an ice vein ??? that a careful reader could reasonably ask which real planet it is. This book will not answer, on purpose. Naming it would turn every physical detail into a claim about that specific place, checkable and arguable in ways that would distract from the point: the details are chosen to be true of the class of near-term destination this book actually discusses, not of one program???s actual survey data. She is every dead-world camp this book refuses to schedule for Friday, and none of them specifically. The vagueness is a feature. It keeps the argument about the physics of any close, dead, weighable world, not about whichever agency???s site selection happens to be current when you read this page.
-The drill, timed. A sticking airlock is not the emergency described so far.
-The actual emergency drill Mara runs, monthly, whether or not the seal has behaved that week, is a suited egress from a cold start: alarm to airlock, fully suited, checked, and cycling, inside a target window measured in single minutes, because the scenarios that drill is built for ??? a fire, a rapid pressure loss, a toxic leak from a scrubber gone wrong ??? do not wait for a comfortable pace. The first several times she ran it, in training, on Earth, in a mockup with an instructor holding a stopwatch and a clipboard, she missed the window by enough that the instructor made her run it again immediately, sweating, before her heart rate had recovered from the first attempt. That is not cruelty. It is the same principle Chapter 6???s checklist rehearsal already described: a body under real alarm behaves differently than a body reading a manual, and the only way to know the genuine number is to make the body do it, badly, until it does it well.
-The published record for actual suited egress times, from real training programs, clusters in a range most readers would find uncomfortably long ??? several minutes at best, for a fully rehearsed crew, longer for anyone still learning the suit. A poster shows a hero moving fast. A checklist shows a hero moving at the speed a pressurized glove and a stiff joint actually allow, which is not fast, and the entire discipline of an emergency drill is closing the gap between those two speeds as far as the equipment will permit and no further.
-Appendix A1 writes delay, dirt, and why this kitchen is not a loaf. Here, keep the heel of the glove. The rest of the book is the argument that this is not small-mindedness. It is the only size a program has ever reliably sold.
-Where the popular version goes wrong.
-The slide promotes the noun and crops the receipt. Look first: ask what was measured, what still needs Earth or a body, what the checklist still leaves empty.
-Rule: The airlock still sticks. Dirt keeps one set of books. Posters do not open seals.
+The invented world Mara stands on is described in enough weighable detail ??? a butterscotch sky, a pressure you cannot breathe, a dead crust with an ice vein ??? that a careful reader could ask which real planet it is. This book will not answer, on purpose. Naming it would turn every detail into a claim about one survey. One-sixth of Earth???s gravity is the Moon, and the Moon is named when this book is on the Moon. This camp does not get to borrow that number. The details here are the class of a close, dead, weighable world, not whichever site a program has circled this year.
 
 ## 2. A Program Is Not a Poster
@@ -140,5 +133,5 @@ The mechanism is imperfect and this book will not pretend otherwise; a documente
 Appendix A2 writes a short ledger of what has actually flown in this century ??? loops, landers, samples ??? and what has not. Here, keep the two panels. The pad is inventory. The skyline is a wish.
 Where the popular version goes wrong.
-The slide promotes the noun and crops the receipt. Look first: ask what was measured, what still needs Earth or a body, what the checklist still leaves empty.
+The slide shows a skyline and calls it a program. Look first: which panel has flown, which date moved, which loop still needs Earth.
 Rule: A program is not a poster. Ask what flew, what slipped, what still needs Earth.
 
@@ -151,5 +144,5 @@ Figure 3. One horizontal line, three large ticks: announced year, review, later
 The radio is late, as always. On the good weeks it is four minutes. On the rude weeks it is twenty. Someone on Earth is still selling a year as if a year were a landing gear. The year in this morning???s packet is not the year in last year???s packet. Mara does not gasp. She has been in this kitchen long enough to treat a date as a weather report: useful, local, wrong tomorrow.
 Official slips are engineering plus politics. Both words have to sit still.
-where a slip is a moved official date for a named class of mission ??? not a mood, not a conspiracy proof, not a destiny.
+A slip is a moved official date for a named class of mission ??? not a mood, not a conspiracy proof, not a destiny.
 Engineering is the part the posters skip because it is a list. A heat shield that charred too deep. A valve that iced. A suit whose bearings seize in dust that has no water to be polite. A refueling rehearsal that leaked, or did not light, or lit and then taught you a new way to be afraid. Software that raced a race it was not supposed to win. A supplier that could not find a forging. Radiation that a paper said was fine and a phantom that a crew doctor will not sign. None of these is a morality play. Each is a thing that takes calendar.
 Politics is the other half of the same invoice. A legislature that wanted a landing in a term it could campaign on. A new administrator who inherited a stack and a story and changed the story. A partner nation that delayed a module. A contractor who bid a number that was a wish. A war, a pandemic, a different agency???s emergency, a launch that failed two pads over and made every review board sit up. None of these is proof that the Moon is a hoax. None of these is proof that the downtown is inevitable ???once they stop lying.??? They are how a species that does projects with other people actually does projects.
@@ -161,5 +154,5 @@ A con hides the oven. It will not show the heat-shield coupon, the suit???s dust
 An invoice shows the coupon. It says: this part failed, this is the retest, this is the new earliest morning that is not a wish. It may still be optimistic. Optimism is not a crime. Optimism plus a locked press kit plus a punishment for the person who reports the coupon ??? that is how invoices go bad.
 Why do honest people print optimistic years in the first place? Because a program that prints its true expectation loses the room. This is a hot pattern in every large engineering ledger ever audited, not a lunar disease. Big projects ??? dams, tunnels, rail lines, software, stacks ??? come in late and over budget far more often than they come in early. The people who plan them are not liars. They are estimating the parts they can see and treating the parts they cannot see as smaller than history says they will be. The best planners do a rude thing about it: they look up what happened to the last twenty projects of the same class and pull their own year toward that record, no matter how good their drawing is. That is called taking the outside view. It is the reason Tom???s third column exists.
-where the outside view is the year you would bet on if you were only allowed to look at the record of similar programs, not at the slide.
+The outside view is the year you would bet on if you were only allowed to look at the record of similar programs, not at the slide.
 A year printed from the inside view is a mood. A year printed from the outside view is an invoice with a range on it. The second kind sounds worse in a hearing and is far kinder to the people who have to live in the tin.
 This book will not run a courtroom for any one logo. Logos change. The pattern does not. If you want a morality play, write a different book. If you want to know how soon, learn to read a slip as information. A slip that names the long pole ??? the lander has not demonstrated the last kilometer; the suits are late; the tanker has not transferred ??? is a gift. A slip that names only ???integration??? is a fog. Fog is not fraud. Fog is what a program sounds like when it has not yet chosen which invoice to show.
@@ -212,5 +205,5 @@ The lesson generalizes past any one nation???s ledger, which is the entire point
 Appendix A3 writes a short pattern-book of public slips ??? Apollo, Shuttle, Constellation, Artemis-class, a commercial heavy stack ??? without turning any line into a sermon. Here, keep the three ticks. Announced. Review. Later. The space between them is where the work lives. The work is allowed to be slow. The slide is not allowed to call the slowness a landing.
 Where the popular version goes wrong.
-The slide promotes the noun and crops the receipt. Look first: ask what was measured, what still needs Earth or a body, what the checklist still leaves empty.
+The slide prints a year and calls the gap beside it a scandal, or a destiny. Look first: announced, review, later. The work is the gap.
 Rule: Dates slip. Slip is a temperature, not a scandal. Log the delay; keep building.
 
